On its own or combined with other technologies (e.g., sensors, geolocation, robotics) AI can perform tasks that would otherwise require human intelligence or intervention. Digital assistants, GPS guidance, autonomous vehicles, and generative AI tools (like Open AI's Chat GPT) are just a few examples of AI in the daily news and our daily lives. **Types of artificial intelligence: weak AI vs. strong AI** Weak AI—also known as _narrow AI_ or _artificial narrow intelligence_ (ANI)—is AI trained and focused to perform specific tasks. Weak AI drives most of the AI that surrounds us today. "Narrow" might be a more apt descriptor for this type of AI as it is anything but weak: it enables some very robust applications, such as Apple's Siri, Amazon's Alexa, IBM watsonx™, and self-driving vehicles.Strong AI is made up of _artificial general intelligence_ (AGI) and _artificial super intelligence_ (ASI). AGI, or general AI, is a theoretical form of AI where a machine would have an intelligence equal to humans; it would be self-aware with a consciousness that would have the ability to solve problems, learn, and plan for the future. ASI—also known as superintelligence—would surpass the intelligence and ability of the human brain. While strong AI is still entirely theoretical with no practical examples in use today, that doesn't mean AI researchers aren't also exploring its development. In the meantime, the best examples of ASI might be from science fiction, such as HAL, the superhuman and rogue computer assistant in *2001: A Space Odyssey.* - Speech recognition- Customer service- Computer vision- supply chain- Weather forecasting
